src/content/work/vibrant.md, before:

---
company: "Vibrant Credit Union"
role: "Software Architect"
dateStart: "08/29/2022"
dateEnd: "Now"
---

- Architected and led development of a new mobile app using React Native, Redux Toolkit, RTK Query, TypeScript and Auth0 SDK.
- Designed and built backend server API using C#, .NET Core, Entity Framework Core, Npgsql and PostgreSQL.
- Responsible for making key technology decisions, evaluating trade-offs and documented in Architecture Decision Records (ADR).
- Implemented secure user account management using Okta (Auth0) Authentication and Management APIs to handle user login and signup.
- Established several API integrations including Twilio SendGrid Email Web API, 3rd party loyalty APIs.
- Built automated unit and integration test suites using xUnit, NSubstitute, Jest, React Testing Library and Maestro for E2E testing.
- Administered, deployed and maintained cloud hosted Azure App Services, virtual networks and PostgreSQL-based server-side infrastructure.
- Reduced infrastructure setup time to 5 minutes by automating the creation and deployment of Azure cloud infrastructure using bicep templates.
- Built and optimized CI/CD pipeline to automate packaging and deployment of iOS and Android apps leading to 25% reduction in monthly billing costs.
- Worked closely with internal marketing teams, vendors, contractors and project managers to define, prioritize, track and implement software features.
- Managed Android and Apple app store releases as well as Beta Testing process and feedback involving over 40 users.
- Mentored junior developers on best practices and maintained high coding standards through regular code reviews.

Commit message:

Update work history and remove link from header

src/content/work/vibrant.md, after:

---
company: "Vibrant Credit Union"
location: "Moline, IL"
role: "Software Architect"
dateStart: "08/29/2022"
dateEnd: "Now"
---

Vibrant is a financial institution that started as Deere Harvester Credit Union in 1935 and has since then grown to more than 50,000 members across the U.S. managing more than $1 billion in assets. We’ve recently launched Vibrant Coffeehouse & Kitchen with 3 locations in Iowa and Illinois and plans to expand across the Midwest in the next few years.

I was hired to build the BeVibrant app, a cross-platform loyalty and lifestyle mobile app for the Vibrant Coffeehouse & Kitchen aimed at increasing revenue as well as organizational engagement within the local community. In my role I:

- Architected and led greenfield development of mobile app using React Native, TypeScript, C#, .NET Core, Entity Framework Core, Npgsql and PostgreSQL.
- Implemented secure user account management and authentication using Auth0 APIs.
- Established API integrations with Twilio SendGrid Email API, 3rd party loyalty APIs for core app functionality including earning points, redeeming rewards and viewing order history.
- Maintained code quality by building automated unit and integration test suites using xUnit, NSubstitute, Jest, Testing Library and Maestro for E2E testing.
- Administered, deployed and maintained cloud hosted Azure App Services, virtual networks and PostgreSQL-based server-side infrastructure.
- Automated the deployment of Azure infrastructure using bicep templates, reducing cloud infrastructure setup time from 1 hour of manual setup to 5 minutes per environment.
- Built and optimized CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions to automate packaging and deployment of iOS and Android apps leading to 25% reduction in build times and monthly billing costs.

**Technologies**: React Native, RTK, RTK Query, TypeScript, C#, .NET Core, Entity Framework Core, Npgsql, PostgreSQL, Auth0, Twilio SendGrid, xUnit, NSubstitute, Jest, Testing Library, Maestro, ESLint, Prettier, Azure, Git, GitHub Actions, Figma, Azure DevOps
